Warrior of the Week
2/5/22


Name: Natasha Gabrielsen-Folk


Age: 40 years young


Kids: Four in all! My angel Julianna (13), my gift Logan (12), the link Isabella (9), my miracle Calvin (4).


Marital Status: Married to James for 8 years, friends since elementary school


Pets: Our family dog is Robert, 3 cats (Anna, Elsa, and Olaf). (We have had chickens, rabbits, hamsters, hermit crabs, and another dog)


Occupation: School librarian in a grade one to five, elementary school. I also work part-time as a children’s librarian at the best public library around, Middle Country Public Library.


College: Dowling College for my BA in Elementary Education; CW Post for my master’s in library science


Hometown: South Setauket, New York. I loved growing up surrounded by my extended family and friends, great memories, and friendships.


Current Town: Mount Sinai NY (three years), ten years in Selden before that; if only I started running with Ken Nuss, rather than shying away with excuses every time then my commute to the hills would have been a lot faster!


Hobbies: My hobbies are so tied in with my children’s interests. We are a very big scouting family at a pack and troop level. Being in scouting, we have learned and grown so much as a family. My other hobbies include geocaching, hiking, stair master (I love it when I get in the groove), traveling; the kids and I love indoor water parks, skiing, ATV-ing, and reading. I try to do as much as possible. My thoughts are to try everything once because you will never regret trying, but will regret not trying


Favorite Races: Warrior dash, Turkey trot. I enjoyed watching my husband run the Tough Mudder, so I tried the Warrior Dash. Most of my runs (which are usually walking) involve running for a cause because of the loss of someone I love. Voices brain tumor 5k NYC & Long Island, which is now hosted National Brain Tumor Society, CHD Awareness 5K.


Frequent Running Spots: Neighborhood streets or local track. I seem to always have excuses when trying to meet a goal, which I am overcoming with the help of the Selden hills family.


Personal Message: First, thank you to Lou for this welcome and time to shine. Since my first “run” in July honoring one of my best friends, Ken Nuss, the Selden Team Warriors have been so supportive, friendly, and inspiring. So, thank you to Lou and the entire community for that.


I have heard about the Selden Hills Warriors for years, ever since Ken joined. Funny I was supposed to start running with him 10 years ago and ALWAYS had a reason I couldn’t. Ken always told me not to be shy because the running community is amazing and encouraging.


Ken always discussed his running experiences and even invited my family to cheer him on (NH 1/2 Iron man was amazing to see). I was always curious about the Hills, but never strong enough to make the commitment.


After honoring Ken in July by walking some of the hills (I had to leave early because I brought my 3-year-old not knowing what I got myself into). I knew I wanted to come back. Thankful that Martha, María, and Christina were ready to go back to the hills and we did! With the guidance of Jennifer Finkelstein Adelberg Carrie Treadwell and Ken in spirit, we took on the hills. We laughed, cried, were encouraged, and even pushed ourselves more than we could imagine. To start at the pole you are feeling good, but to end at the pole, I was on a high; ready to accomplish anything. This feeling has brought me back to so many wonderful things and the goals I have set for myself, I look forward to reading this in a few years proud of the goals I have accomplished.


So, a little more about me. I had a nice upbringing. My parents are still married; celebrated 50 years, this year; just amazing. I graduated high school early and started my college career. I am very family-oriented, so I didn’t go away to college, Suffolk, Dowling, CW Post. Nothing crazy or exciting during college, just work, college, friends. After graduating with my master's, I was able to go get a few leave replacements. In 2006 I began working at Park Avenue School as a librarian and have been there since. It is crazy to see my first-year students as college graduates! I do not know how that many years have passed!
After being at my job for a year, I got pregnant with my daughter Julianna. Julianna was an angel sent from above because without her my life would have taken a completely different course.


After Julianna was born, her father and I decided to split. I became a single mom. I never imagined being a single mom, nor did I ever imagine the joy, strength, and love I could feel. Let me restate this, I was a single mom but had amazing support from my parents and friends.


With Julianna, my focus in life changed. She could never have any of the fears that I had, and I would not let my fears hold me back any longer. My fears stopped me from experiencing so many adventures in my life. For instance, I never flew. I was afraid (still get very nervous) to fly and passed up trips to California, Norway, and even Australia - I still do not like saying that out loud! Our motto was “keep trying”. We did just that; Julianna and I kept trying when things got tough or made us nervous- we didn’t give up. Because of that, I was able to buy a house before I was 30, had a great job, and live a nice life.


Soon our life changed for the better. I met up with a high school friend in 2011, James and his son Logan. Our stories have been combined ever since. I say high school because that is when I remember James in my life, however, he remembers me from when we were in elementary school. Our romance was fast, surreal, and passionate. My life went from a single mom to a family of four in a year.


Jim had custody of his son Logan, my gift. Quickly our children bonded, which confirmed it was right. In 2012 we welcomed Isabella Rose, the link. She linked our two families in a way that stepfamilies dream of being linked. She brought us so much joy, laughter and sealed the deal that we were getting married and continuing our journey together.
We had many adventures. We love traveling and exploring all the indoor water parks in the area!


So, how did running come to be for me? I can honestly say I have always dreamed of being a runner. However, never made the commitment, or if I did commit it didn’t last past a few months. I always found a reason or excuse why I couldn’t but, in my heart, I yearned for it. Kenny wanted me to run with him when he turned 40. I was going to join him in a bear mountain triathlon, but I backed out and he trained his heart out. It’s a little ironic that something I was going to do with him, I will now do in his honor. I have a great running support team and together I know I will have the encouragement to make my dreams come true while honoring one of the best.
You never know what life is going to throw your way, but if you live every day with a kind heart and positive intention, no matter how hard, things always seem to work out. This community has been so supportive and encouraging, thank you for that. I hope to see you in the Hills!




